@title: Fen2eps
@author: Dirk Baechle

== Fen2eps ==


Welcome to the homepage of \\Fen2eps\\!


\\Fen2eps\\ is a small console-based program.
It was written in order to convert FEN (Forsyth Edwards Notation) strings
to \\EPS\\ (Encapsulated Postscript) files directly.
You can import the created board diagrams into most of the commonly used
DTP programs, without having to install any fonts! They can be scaled freely
and still provide the highest quality, limited only by your output device.


In general, \\Fen2eps\\ aims at the editing of documents/texts
with only a few diagrams, e.g. posters. If you need to display a lot of chess
positions the \\LaTeX\\ package 
``$$skak$$'' by Torben Hoffmann might be a better solution. It is 
available at the 
[[http://www.tug.org/ctan CTAN (Comprehensive TeX Archive Network)]].


\\Fen2eps\\ reads from `$$stdin$$' and writes to
`$$stdout$$'. The user can select from 19 different chess fonts for
creating the diagrams... check out the 
[[./fontlist/fontlist.pdf list of fonts (PDF, 500KB)]]. 

These fonts were converted from the freeware TrueType fonts that can be found at
[[http://www.enpassant.dk www.enpassant.dk]]. So the credits
for all the beautiful chess pieces go to their creators 
\\Armando Hernandez Marroquin\\, \\Eric Bentzen\\ and \\Egon Madsen\\.
Thank you!


For more information about the various options, take a look at
the [[./manual/manual.html manual]] that is contained in the
[[http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/fen2eps download archive]],
together with the source file and a small `$$Makefile$$'. Compiling
\\Fen2eps\\ should be straightforward, using a decent C++ compiler...
 
There is also an archive providing a readily compiled DOS version of
\\Fen2eps\\ which should run on most DOS/Windows platforms. If you
try to start it under plain DOS read the instructions in the
`$$README$$' file and the [[./manual/manual.html manual]] first.


Please also regard the file `$$COPYING$$' for the
terms of the GNU GPL (General Public License).

Using [[http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen Doxygen]] 
you can easily generate a documentation for the source file if you want to.

== Contributions ==

~24.04.2010||Heinz van Saanen, patch for the support of modern C++ compilers
and improved Makefile.

== Download ==

[[http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/fen2eps Download archives for Fen2eps]]



