@title: Manual for Fen2eps v1.0
@author: Dirk Bächle
@date: 2010-06-22

Abstract:
This manual gives a short introduction to the various
options of the program \\Fen2eps\\.


== Requirements == required

Basically, \\Fen2eps\\ doesn't have any dependencies. It should run
out-of-the-box, when compiled with a decent C++ compiler. The Windows
executable was prepared under Windows XP, and should
work under Windows Vista/7 as well.

== Starting the program == start

Starting \\Fen2eps\\ is as simple as saying

Code:
fen2eps &lt; a.fen &gt; a.eps

where the file `$$a.fen$$' contains a single FEN
string in one line and
`$$a.eps$$' is the resulting \\EPS\\ file.
This \\EPS\\ file contains all necessary graphic symbols
for displaying the chess diagram, you don't have to install any fonts!
Since \\Fen2eps\\ reads each line only to the first "space"
character you can also input EPD (Extended Position Description) strings...

If you call \\Fen2eps\\ with one of the command-line arguments ``$$-h$$'',
``$$-?$$'' or ``$$--help$$'', a small usage message appears. 
It provides a short overview of the additional options, which are explained
in detail in the following sections.

== Selecting fonts == fontselect


The current version 1.0 of \\Fen2eps\\ provides 19 different chess
fonts for creating board diagrams. The outlines of the chess pieces
are stored in special definition files, which have the extension `$$*.fed$$'
and can be found in the `$$fed$$' directory.
These files also contain information about the different heights and widths
of the single ``characters''.

The fonts were downloaded from 
[[http://www.enpassant.dk www.enpassant.dk]] in TrueType format
and then converted to Postscript outlines with the help of
[[http://fontforge.sf.net FontForge]] (formerly known as 
[[http://pfaedit.sf.net Pfaedit]]). Please, regard that the
copyright is still with their authors \\Armando Hernandez Marroquin\\,
\\Eric Bentzen\\ and \\Egon Madsen\\. All fonts are freeware and
may be used for non-commercial purposes only!

\\Fen2eps\\ does not have something like a built-in font. For maximum
flexibility it always needs an external `$$*.fed$$' file where it can
extract the piece outlines from. If nothing else is specified, \\Fen2eps\\
looks for the font file `$$default.fed$$' which is present in
the same directory as the executable. Right after unZIPing the archive,
this default font file is a copy of the font ``\\Chess Merida\\'' 
(filename: `$$merida.fed$$').

If you don't like it, all you have to do is to overwrite the file
`$$default.fed$$' with one of the other `$$*.fed$$' files.
For an overview you can take a look at the 
[[../fontlist/fontlist.pdf list of fonts]].
Afterwards, the new font is used for creating the \\EPS\\ diagrams.

As an alternative, you can use the option ``$$-f$$'', followed by the
name of the font definition file that should be used instead of
`$$default.fed$$'.

So, replacing

Code:
cp fed/marroq.fed default.fed
fen2eps &lt; a.fen > a.eps


you could also say

Code:
fen2eps -f fed/marroq.fed &lt; a.fen > a.eps


which leaves the default font file untouched.

== Additional options == addoptions


==+ No notation == nonotation


If you don't want to provide a notation for the chess diagram,
you can specify the option ``$$-n$$'' while calling \\Fen2eps\\.
The board is output without notation letters and digits then.

== Reverse board == reverseboard


You might want to display a board from Blacks perspective. In this case, use
the option ``$$-r$$'' which creates a diagram that is drawn reverse.

== Exporting several FEN strings at once == prefix


Exporting several FEN strings with the same settings is a
tedious task. \\Fen2eps\\ can help if you prepare a file, let's
name it `$$many.fen$$', that contains all the chess positions you
want to convert. By specifying the 
``$$-p$$'' option you give \\Fen2eps\\ a file prefix it can use
for generating single EPS diagrams automatically. You can say

Code:
fen2eps -p diag/dg &lt; many.fen


for example. What you get is one EPS file for each FEN string in `$$many.fen$$'.
These EPS files are created in the directory `$$diag$$' and have the prefix 
`$$dg$$' followed by a unique number.

If the 
``$$-p$$'' option is given, \\Fen2eps\\ does !!NOT!! write to
`$$stdout$$' but to the created files directly. So redirecting the
output by appending a 

Code:
&gt; isempty.eps


to the program call does not have any effect (except that you get an
empty file named `$$isempty.eps$$'...).

Of course, you can mix all these options and after the call

Code:
fen2eps -n -r -p diag/dg -f fed/lucena.fed &lt; many.fen


(let's assume the file `$$many.fen$$' contains 7 FEN strings...) you
can find the files `$$dg1.eps$$' to `$$dg7.eps$$' in the
directory `$$diag$$'. All boards are displayed reverse, without notation
and use the font ``\\Chess Lucena\\''.



